# webpack vs parcel
- Both are bundlers that minify the code, clean it and compact it.
- Both of these bundlers substantially reduce the time it takes for the transfer of data and files to the server from the application.
-  Both supports Hot Module Replacement(parcel built-in), bit different from live reload.
-  Parcel is more about plug-&-play(Zero config) where webpack requires the manual specification of the installation, configuration, types of the files to be transformed, plugin configuration for making them transform and entry loaders.
-  Tree shaking available in Parcel but not in webpack(but configurable).
-  Code splitting is not there in Parcel where webpack has the provision of lazy loading by using code splitting.


# npm and its use
- npm is a package manager not officially but we can call it anyway or "Nonprofit Pizza Makers" :p
- A tool that can use to install packages for your apps.
- Consisting two things a CLI tool and online repo
- CLI tool helps to download install packages where online hosts js packages.
- command like npm install and npm publish can be use to achieve some features.
# package vs package-lock.json

| package.json | package.lock.json|
|:--------|:-----------------|
| 1. Have the job to describe the project gets created after using running npm init. attr line `name`, `license`, `version`. | 1. This file describes the exact versions of the dependencies used in an npm JavaScript project.|
|2. Using npm install it download packages into the project's node_modules folder according to package.json specifications, upgrading the package version (and in turn regenerating package-lock.json) wherever it can based on ^ and ~ version matching. |2. package-lock.json is usually generated by the npm install command, and is also read by our NPM CLI tool to ensure reproduction of build environments for the project with npm ci.|

- `npm ci` installs dependencies directly from package-lock.json and uses package.json only to validate that there are no mismatched versions. If any dependencies are missing or have incompatible versions, it will throw an error.
- `Note : Package-lock.json is a very imp file it locks the version and you never have to keep it in .gitignore. Follows Transitive Dependencies`

# caret (^) vs tilde (~)
- Version written as `Major.Minor.Patch` (v7.2.1)
- Tilde (~) notation is used to match the most recent patch version. Tilde ~ notation freezes the major version and minor version. Eg: ~1.2.0 be 1.2.**1**
- Caret (^) notation is used for automatically updating the minor updates along with patch updates. Eg ^1.2.4 be 1.x.x 

## what is npx
- The npx stands for Node Package Execute and it comes with the npm.
- It is an npm package runner so if any packages aren’t already installed it will install them automatically ans execute it whereas in npm  you have to specify that package in your package.json and install it locally.

## HMR (Hot Module Replacement) and how it works ?
- It allows all kinds of modules to be updated at runtime without the need for a full refresh.
- Something known as file watcher algo - C++

**Working of HMR:**

  - Webpack provides two components to make HMR possible.
  - HMR Server (included in webpack-dev-server as middleware) and HMR Runtime
  - After change the bundler's(Webpack) compiler rebuilds one or more modules and notifies the HMR server that an update has been made.
  - The HMR server uses websockets to inform the HMR Runtime that an update has been made in the code, and that the Runtime needs to pull the update and replace the respective module.
  - The HMR Runtime then replaces the module(s) in the update.


## What is dist ?
- The shortform dist stands for distributable and refers to a directory where files will be stored that can be directly used by others without the need to compile or minify the source code that is being reused.
- Dist folder files are production-ready compiled version of your code.
## Features of Parcel (using in the current app)
    - Created a Server
    - Bundler
    - Minifier
    - Cleaning a code
    - HMR
    - Image optimization
    - Caching while development : Consistent Hashing Algo
    - Compression(rename vars and func)
    - Comptible with other version of browser
    - to enable HTTPS 
    - Port manager
    - Zero config bundler
## How to compatible our app with older browsers?
    BrowserList package

      - browserlist[
        "last 2 version"
      ]
